in Britain it was the era of Margaret
Thatcher and monetarism compact discs
and dire straits Bob Geldof and Live Aid
we'd never had it so good all over again
and to prove it the car industry was in
the throes of massive expansion the
ferocity of competition for sales
matched only by the intensity of
competition in sport as the makers
struggled to show each other who was
boss for rally fans it was a golden era
when battle for the championship became
as intense and technical and more
expensive than the hunt for the Formula
one crown first real evidence of this
came in the squat brutal shape of the
Audi Quattro bringing a turbocharger and
Technology learned from jeeps into the
Rally Championship in a car destined to
be the first ever four-wheel-drive Rally
winner in 1981 it was up against
traditional opposition in the shape of
the 250 horsepower Opel Ascona
even the newcomers like Toyota Celica
were traditional designs groups 1 to 9
were scheduled to die in 82 seeing the
end of things like the tallit Lotus that
the makers title in 80 ran and the
Chevette which Russell Brooks was using
to good effect in the 80s
everything was scheduled to change the
Ascona had been around into the mid
seventies and remain competitive until
the arrival of the new breed of cars as
groups 1 to 9 were replaced by a B and
in
1982 was the year of the cuatro
bristling with new technology including
aluminium and Kevlar panels a 5 cylinder
engine turbo charger and a four-wheel
drive system culled from a military jeep
produced by Volkswagen 200 pounds
heavier than anything else it was backed
by rallying first proper war machine
provoking all the jokes about pansies
and blitzkrieg and it was by no means a
perfect rally car nose heavy with
serious understeer and a significant
turbo lag it also had a solid drive line
with no center dip it was a pig to drive